Why do you need to control oil for oily skin?
If you don't control
oil, the oil you produce will oxidize and turn yellow,
making your face look like it's covered with a layer of soy sauce.
If you don't control
oil, the oil you produce will oxidize to form peroxides,
which will irritate your skin
and cause you to break out.
If you don't control oil,
then
the sunscreen film may be destroyed,
and your delicate makeup may collapse due to oil production.
Therefore,
oil control is very necessary for oily skin.
It is the basis of your daily skin care
and the key to preventing acne and yellowing.
But the problem is that
the oil control methods on the Internet are very fragmented.
Some people tell you to apply loose powder,
and some tell you to use acid.
These methods may not be suitable for you at all,
causing you to develop closed comedones and allergies.
They may also work well at the beginning,
but then they stop working after a while.
The reason for these results
is that these methods are one-sided.
So today I want to explain
to you one thing from a more scientific and systematic perspective,
that is, how should oily skin control oil?
First of all, why does the skin produce oil?
In fact, the oil we produce is not produced by the skin,
but deep inside the skin. The sebaceous glands
are located deep inside the pores.
They secrete oil and then
transport it to the surface of the skin through the pores.
This is the oil we secrete.
Generally speaking,
these oils
include triglycerides,
a small amount of squalene and wax.
They can help moisturize the skin,
maintain the integrity of the barrier,
and prevent the moisture in the skin from being lost easily.
But when it is secreted too much,
it is not good
because it will clog the pores.
The peroxides formed after oxidation
will also irritate the skin and
cause you to get acne
. So the key to oily skin care
is to regulate
the secretion of oil by the sebaceous glands
. What are the factors that affect the secretion of sebaceous glands?
They include age factors, endocrine factors,
hormonal factors
, body temperature,
external temperature
, the integrity of your barrier
, and factors affected by various external stimuli.
We divide these factors
into two types.
One is like hormones and endocrines, which
belong to internal factors
, which are determined by our own body.
The other part is
like the degree of damage to your barrier
, temperature
, and the stimulation caused by using some products. This
is called external factors
. If it is determined by these external conditions,
then if you want a scientific and
systematic method of oil control
, you must regulate both internal and external factors. Let's talk
about the
two main influencing factors of internal factors
. One is the hormonal factor
and the other is the endocrine factor
. As for the hormonal factor,
in fact, its core influence on our oil production
is androgen.
Androgen can make the secretion of sebaceous glands become active,
which is why men generally have oilier skin than women.
But the hormonal factor
is difficult to be affected by our daily diet
and external skin care products.
So for the internal factors,
our focus is on endocrine regulation. How do
endocrine changes
control the sebaceous glands to secrete oil?
There is such a physiological pathway in the body.
When your blood sugar rises,
it will promote your body to secrete insulin
, and insulin
will promote the secretion of insulin growth factor
. This growth factor
can increase the activity of sebaceous glands in secreting oil.
So these processes in the middle are ignored
. In short, the faster
and more violently
your blood sugar rises,
the more oil your sebaceous glands secrete. The more
you eat, the more important it is to control oil levels
by regulating your endocrine system.
This means that you should avoid high-sugar and high-glycemic foods
when you eat.
High sugar, as the name
suggests,
means high sugar content.
As you know, many fruits and
sweets are high-sugar foods. What is high glycemic?
It means that when you eat this food,
your blood sugar
rises to what extent and at what speed.
This is not necessarily completely consistent with high sugar.
For example, fruits like apples
are high in sugar
but low in glycemic levels, so
you may eat
this type of fruit moderately.
What are high-glycemic foods?
Typical examples are
snacks and sweets like milk tea, cakes, etc.
Also, foods like white rice
and mashed potatoes
are all high-glycemic foods .
We should try our best to avoid
eating too much of these foods on a daily basis.
I'll put a table of these foods on the screen
for you to remember.
After talking about what you can't eat,
let's talk about what you should eat,
which is foods containing Omega. Omega 3 foods or supplements.
You may have heard of
it. It can promote brain development,
repair the nervous system,
including regulating blood lipids, etc.
But what people don’t notice is that
Omega 3 can also control oil
by regulating insulin growth factor.
Omega 3
is a polyunsaturated fatty acid that the human body needs.
Why is it necessary
? Because Omega 3 cannot be synthesized by the body itself.
You can only take it into the body from the outside.
Omega 3
is found in large quantities in deep-sea fish, algae
, and a small amount of seeds in the oil.
If you don’t have these foods
in your daily diet,
you will easily lack Omega 3.
A more efficient way to do this
is to take supplements directly
, that is, fish oil.
According to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
and the European Food Safety Authority,
the daily Omega intake for adults is recommended . The recommended daily intake of omega 3
is more than 250 mg.
When choosing supplements, we
can
choose the content of your supplements based on
this standard
. There are two core types of fish oils on the market
: RTG and
EE.
RTG has newer technology, better
activity, and
higher absorption,
while EE is more classic, stable,
and has a longer shelf life.
As for related products,
typical RTG types on the market
include some fish oils from the brand NYO 3
and fish oils from the brand WHC,
while classic EE types
include Webber nature or Mega gold, etc.
They all have related products.
A special reminder:
if you are pregnant,
you must choose fish oil that does not contain EPA,
because EPA, an Omega 3,
can reduce blood viscosity and
has the effect of activating blood circulation, which
poses certain risks for pregnant women.
In summary,
solving internal causes means solving endocrine problems,
and in this core
physiological pathway of endocrine
, we must solve the problems of increased blood sugar
and increased insulin growth factor.
In simple terms
, avoid eating high-glycemic foods
and pay attention to supplementing Omega 3.
Next, let's talk about external
factors. The core of external factors is the choice of skin care products.
There are two key words
when choosing daily skin care products for oily skin.
One is to cleanse thoroughly,
and the other is to reduce oil production.
First, the key to cleansing thoroughly
is to choose a facial cleanser
suitable for oily skin.
The key to choosing a facial cleanser is to choose a surfactant.
There are many types of surfactants,
such as soap base
and SLS. SLES
includes amino acid surfactants
, betaine surfactants
, and APG
.
You must be confused
when I mention so many types of surfactants, but you will understand
if I put them on a graph.
The horizontal axis of this graph is mildness and
the vertical axis is cleansing power.
In fact, it is easy for us to see that
if we have oily skin
and want to choose a facial cleanser that has good cleansing power
and can remove oil
without damaging the barrier,
then its surfactants should be
selected from this area, that is, amino acids, APG and betaine.
What about facial cleansers containing these surfactants?
Typical products include
CeraVe,
Freeplus,
Paula's Choice Earth Cleanser,
and Kiehl's Super Moisture Cleanser,
which is a complex of these three surfactants.
One thing we should especially remind you of
is that the APG surfactant
does not foam
, so it is easy to be misunderstood
as having poor cleansing ability,
but it is not actually true.
Its cleansing ability is quite good and it
solves the problem of cleaning thoroughly
. Let's talk about daily skin care for oily skin. For
daily skin care for oily skin,
we must remember a key word
, which is simplicity.
Because for oily skin,
it is very important for the pores to breathe
. The more layers you apply
, the less the pores
can breathe. If they can't breathe, they will be blocked
, and then you will get closed comedones and acne.
So
, when it comes to skin care for oily skin , we should
reduce the steps as much as possible.
Once the toner is
used up, we don't need to use a face cream
. There is a special case here . If you have mixed dry skin and
your face has both oily and dry areas,
then
we will use zoning skin care.
Products like face cream that are more moisturizing and sealing
should only be used on the dry cheek area, and
we should avoid using them on the oily areas
. When choosing products, we
should start with three groups of keywords.
The first group is products that inhibit oil production,
such as those containing niacinamide,
zinc,
L-carnitine
, olive
, or vitamin A.
Typical products
include the Ordinary's niacinamide 10%
and zinc essence,
like the Ordinary's balance
clarifying Serum
, and CeraVe PM oil-control lotion,
Ouma's olive gel,
Ola's olive essence
, and SkinCeuticals' color correcting essence, etc.
For the second type of pore unclogger,
we can choose
essences or toners containing mandelic acid or salicylic acid.
Typical examples
include Doctor Wu's mandelic acid water,
mandelic acid essence
, and Ruo Meixin's mandelic acid essence
. Ordinary mandelic acid essence,
salicylic acid body essence or facial essence
, as well as Xinsui oil-control toner
and Paula's Choice salicylic acid essence, etc.
The third category
is products that contain ingredients that can help you dissipate heat
or help you absorb oil.
Typically,
for example, some products
contain alcohol that promotes volatility
or
products with cooling agents such as menthol and erythritol,
such as Kiehl's Men's Vitality Toner
or Nivea Men's Vitality Essence Water
, etc. The fastest and most effective way
to help absorb oil is loose powder,
typically those loose powders that contain silica in the ingredient list,
especially those that
claim in their promotional materials that the silica is hollow silica.
Hollow silica
can absorb oil
and wrap the oil you produce. It
will not affect the surface of your skin.
One thing you need to pay special attention to with this type of product is that
it needs to be washed.
If you don't wash it,
when the oil is wrapped on the silica, the more and more
the particles are wrapped,
the larger they are, which will increase the risk of clogging the pores and closing them.
As for the products mentioned above,
we should try to choose one of these three types
instead of using them together.
In addition, if you
experience allergic redness
when using the above products , we should stop
using them and switch to another one.
Because many East Asians
are intolerant to alcohol
or VA.
To summarize the external factors,
our core is to clean the oil
and simplify the use of skin care products in daily life, and
reduce the use of oil-producing products.
At this point,
everyone may have felt
that... Why did I say at the beginning of the video that
the oil control methods on the Internet are fragmented and
unsystematic?
For example, they ask you to use loose powder to control oil,
which is actually what we call
the last method of external factors.
The oil has already come out,
and then you suck it
to make it look less
, but it does not affect the sebaceous glands
, so it cannot fundamentally solve the problem.
As for the acid peeling method,
although it unclogs the pores,
the oil is still constantly coming out. It
does not solve the problem of the sebaceous glands
and is still a temporary solution.
If oily skin
wants to achieve systematic oil control,
it is still
necessary to regulate and solve
both internal and external factors.
At the end of the video
, I will give you
some tips on daily care for oily skin
. First of all,
sun protection is still very important for oily skin in daily care
because after you are exposed to the sun
This heat radiation
will promote the sebaceous glands to secrete a large amount of oil
. After the secreted oil is oxidized,
it will stimulate the skin for the second time
and cause you to get acne.
So not long ago,
I recruited a lot of volunteers with oily skin
to help me test more than a dozen
sunscreens that claim to be suitable for oily skin.
You
are welcome to pick up
the test
results
. I have also recently tested 15
different types of facial cleansers,
some of which are suitable for oily skin and some are not.
Friends who are interested can pick them up
. Another point
is that
some factors will aggravate our daily oil production,
such as staying
up late. Staying up late will
increase oil production
by affecting the endocrine system. Also, for example,
we will subconsciously
pick our faces
or touch our faces with our hands
. This action
will bring bacteria on our hands to our faces.
These bacteria may promote oil secretion,
making your oil secretion more vigorous
and increasing the risk of acne.
Another point
is that if
you frequently cool down
in the summer, this action will help control your oil secretion.
For example,
you can keep a spray on your desk
and spray it on your daily work. It's okay.
This cooling down
will help reduce oil secretion.
I am the formulator Xingxing.
If you like my video
and think what I said is helpful to you,
please like, subscribe and join. I
hope everyone has healthy skin.